---
layout: post
---

October 2023 I decided to trace my parents foot steps through central Asia and
Caucus Mountain region.  They worked for various Chinese embassy and consulates
in the 80's and 90's.  Georgia is a name that's very familiar to me.  I remember
receiving a few bottles of Georgian wines from parents one day.  The wine
bottles looks old-fashioned and made out of clay (?) which I love.  The wine
itself didn't quite do it for me though.  I ended up cooking with it.  My
parents told me how locals love to make wine at home, which is cool.

Since I lived in Berlin and Wizz Air has a direct flight to Kutaisi, I took the
offer and hopped on the plane.  There I met the nicest passenger ever.  This
Georgian girl sitting at my isle, with another passenger from Germany visiting
Georgia sitting in between us.  We ended up chatting and next thing I know, the
Georgian girl bought a small bottle of sparkling wine to share with us.  Upon
landing, her boyfriend came to pick her up.  And they dropped us off at our
respective hotels.

The next few days in Kutaisi was interesting as well as mundane.  Kutaisi is a
very small town.  Out of habit, I 'must' visit local groceries stores to check
out what they have, what locals buy and eat.  I found that their milk was
delicious.  It makes non-fat Costco milk taste like water.  It's probably
illogical but that's the first thing popped up in my mind after tasting the
Georgian milk.

Then I took the train to Tblisi, where my parents lived for 2 years.  They have
prepped me for the trip with anecdotes from 90s.  At time time, Georgia was
quite close to Russia (unlike it is today in 2025).  And Russia and China were
not exactly on good terms.  They kept it to themselves as they were treated by
the locals with a polite distance.  They worked at the Chinese embassy and went
home after work driven by a designated driver for security reasons.  
